Publishing and consuming open data is a cornerstone for the development of
applications and the creation of an innovation ecosystem. In this regard, this
section explains how users (both end users and developers) can expose their data
publishing it in CKAN, the Open Data publication GE.

CKAN is an open source solution for the publication, management and consumption
of open data, usually, but not only, through static datasets. CKAN allows to
catalogue, upload and manage open datasets and data sources, while supports
searching, browsing, visualizing or accessing open data. CKAN is the Open Data
publication platform that is most widely used by cities, public authorities and
organizations.

In addition, this section also deals with how users can create offerings
containing their published data so as to set access control policies and/or
monetize it, using the FIWARE Store (Biz Ecosystem GE). This component allows
the monetization of different kind of assets during the whole service life
cycle, from offering creation to its charging, accounting and revenue settlement
and sharing

You should note that at the time of writing this document, FIWARE offers two
different types of data: context information and datasets, both supported by the
FIWARE extended CKAN. In this regard, the following section explains what are
the existing CKAN extensions build within FIWARE, and the architecture followed
for the monetization of those resources.

-   [FIWARE Extended CKAN](/publishing-open-data-in-fiware/fiware-extended-ckan)

If you are not interested in the technical details, the following sections
explain how data and context information can be published in CKAN, what are the
benefits of publishing your data in the FIWARE Store and the way of doing it.

-   [How to Publish datasets and context information in CKAN](/publishing-open-data-in-fiware/how-to-publish-open-datasets-in-ckan-2/)
-   [How to Offer Datasets (including Context Information) through the FIWARE Store](/publishing-open-data-in-fiware/how-to-offer-datasets-including-context-information-through-the-wstore/introduction/)
    -   [Offering Datasets Directly Through the CKAN Interface](/publishing-open-data-in-fiware/how-to-offer-datasets-including-context-information-through-the-wstore/offering-datasets-directly-through-the-ckan-interface/)
    -   [Offering Datasets Through the FIWARE Store interface](/publishing-open-data-in-fiware/how-to-offer-datasets-including-context-information-through-the-wstore/offering-datasets-through-the-wstore-interface/)
    -   [Acquiring Datasets Offered in the FIWARE Store](/publishing-open-data-in-fiware/how-to-offer-datasets-including-context-information-through-the-wstore/acquiring-datasets-offered-in-the-wstore/)

If you want to start experimenting and doing hands-on work, have a look at:

-   [Extensions to CKAN](https://github.com/conwetlab/FIWARE-CKAN-Extensions)
-   [Biz Ecosystem](https://github.com/FIWARE-TMForum/Business-API-Ecosystem)
