You may want to perform some processing on available context
information. As an example, you may want to automatically detect
patterns that require triggering some action or raising some alarm. You
can use the [FIWARE Complex Event Processing
(CEP)](http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/complex-event-processing-cep-ibm-proactive-technology-online)
as part of the architecture of your applications for this purpose. The
Complex Event Processing GE allows you to detect patterns above
contexts. This way, instead of reacting to a single context information
you can identify and react to patterns over the contexts of several
entities or over a context that was changed over time. The Complex Event
Processing receives contexts information as input events and generates
observations that sometimes called situations, as output events. The CEP
GE analyses input event data in real-time, generates immediate insight
and enables instant response to changing conditions. The technology and
implementations of the CEP provide means to expressively and flexibly
define and maintain the event processing logic of the application.

Applications connected to the CEP GE (external applications or some
other GEs like the Context Broker GE) can play two different roles: the
role of Event Producer or the role of Event Consumer. Note that nothing
precludes that a given application plays both roles. Event Producers are
the source of events for event processing. Following are some examples
of event producers:

-   External applications reporting events on user activities such as
    "user placed a new order", and on operation activities such as
    "delivery has been shipped".
-   Sensors reporting on a new measurement. Events generated by such
    sensors can be consumed directly by the CEP GE. Another alternative
    is that the sensor events are gathered and processed through the IoT
    GEs, which publish context events to the Context Broker GE, having
    the CEP acting as a context consumer of the Context Broker GE.

Event Producers can provide events in two modes:

-   "Push" mode: the Event Producers push events into the CEP by means
    of invoking a REST API.
-   ”Pull” mode: the Event Producer exports a REST API that the CEP can
    invoke to retrieve events.

Event Consumers are the destination point of events. Following are some
examples of event consumers:

-   Dashboard: a type of event consumer that displays alarms defined
    when certain conditions hold on events related to some entities user
    community or produced by a number of devices.
-   Handling process: a type of event consumer that consumes meaningful
    events (such as opportunities or threats) and performs a concrete
    action.
-   The Context Broker GE which can connect as an event consumer to the
    CEP and forward the events it consumes to all interested
    applications based on a subscription model.

The CEP sends output events to the event consumers in a “push” mode by
activating their REST API.

The CEP allows you to define patterns over selected events occurring in
event processing contexts (such as a time window or segmentation) with
optional additional conditions. Those patterns are defined using a Web
based authoring tool without the need to write any code. This makes it
easier to write the event processing logic and to maintain and change it
over time. Examples for supported patterns are:

-   Sequence, meaning events need to occur in a specified order for the
    pattern to be detected. E.g., follow a sensor context, and detect if
    the sensor status was “fixed” and later was “failed” within a time
    window.
-   Aggregate, compute some aggregation functions on a set of incoming
    events. E.g., compute the percentage of the sensors events that
    arrived with a fail status out of all the sensors events arrived in
    the time window. Alert if the percentage of the failed sensors is
    higher than 10 percent.
-   Absent, meaning no event holding some condition arrived within the
    time window for the pattern to match. E.g., alert if within the time
    window no sensor events arriving from specific source have arrived.
    This may indicate that the source is down.
-   All, meaning that all the events specified should arrive for the
    pattern to match. E.g., wait to get status events from all the 4
    locations, where each status event arrives with the quantity of
    reservations. Alert if the total reservations are higher than some
    threshold.

Every pattern is associated with an Event processing context. Event
processing context groups event instances so that they can be processed
in a related way. It assigns each event instance to one or more
processing context partitions. Event processing context can be a
temporal processing context, a segmentation processing context, or a
composite context that is to say one made up of other processing context
specifications.

-   Temporal processing context defines a time window. If a pattern is
    associated with a temporal processing context, it will process only
    the events arriving within this time window. E.g., “within 5 seconds
    after sensor events with high value”, “A time window bounded by
    Order-Placed and Order-Delivered events”
-   Segmentation processing context defined a matching criteria based on
    the attribute values of the events. E.g., “Sensor’s ID”, “Shipment’s
    ID”, “Building’s ID”. Events that belong to the same matching
    criteria (e.g., have the same sensor ID) will be processed together
    within the same processing context partition.

If you are interested in more details check out:

-   [How to define a CEP
    application](/real-time-processing-of-context-events/how-to-define-a-cep-application/)
-   [How to administrate the
    CEP ](/real-time-processing-of-context-events/how-to-administrate-the-cep/)
-   [How to send input events to the
    CEP](/real-time-processing-of-context-events/how-to-send-input-events-to-the-cep/)

