From the application developer perspective, Media Elements are like Lego
pieces: you just need to take the elements needed for an application and
connect them following the desired topology. In Kurento jargon, a graph
of connected media elements is called a Media Pipeline. Hence, when
creating a pipeline, developers need to determine the capabilities they
want to use (the media elements) and the topology determining which
media elements provide media to which other media elements (the
connectivity). The connectivity is controlled through the connect
primitive, exposed on all Kurento Client APIs. This primitive is always
invoked in the element acting as source and takes as argument the sink
element following this scheme:

sourceMediaElement.connect(sinkMediaElement)

For example, if you want to create an application recording WebRTC
streams into the file system, youâ€™ll need two media elements:
WebRtcEndpoint and RecorderEndpoint. When a client connects to the
application, you will need to instantiate these media elements making
the stream received by the WebRtcEndpoint (which is capable of receiving
WebRTC streams) to be feed to the RecorderEndpoint (which is capable of
recording media streams into the file system). Finally you will need to
connect them so that the stream received by the former is fed into the
later:

WebRtcEndpoint.connect(RecorderEndpoint)

To simplify the handling of WebRTC streams in the client-side, Kurento
provides an utility called WebRtcPeer. Nevertheless, the standard WebRTC
API (getUserMedia, RTCPeerConnection, and so on) can also be used to
connect to WebRtcEndpoints. For further information please visit our
Kurento
[tutorials](https://www.kurento.org/docs/current/tutorials.html).
