Your application may also need to integrate multimedia information.
Multimedia information comprises audio and video data, which is commonly
used for the exchange of complex information among humans (i.e. video
conferencing, video-clip sharing, multimedia instant messaging, etc.) In
addition to this, in the last few years, cameras and microphones are
often used as advanced sensors that, combined with computer vision and
other analysis techniques, may generate rich information useful in
different application areas including eHealth, smart cities, security
and defence, entertainment, etc.  

[![4](images/4.png)](images/4.png)

Incorporating into your application such features may be done using the
Real-time Multimedia Stream processing GE (reference implementation
Kurento). In particular, you may be interested in the following usage
patterns.

**Multimedia communications. **

You application may take advantage of this pattern whenever the
introduction of human-to-human communications on it makes sense. That
communication may take place following different information topologies
such as person-to-person (i.e. traditional call model), person-to-people
(i.e. from one sender to several receivers), people-to-people (i.e.
group model where all participants can send and receive the
information). The communication can be complemented with other features
provided by the enabler such as media recording (i.e. storing in a
persistent way the media stream of one or several people) and media
playing (i.e. integrating into the communication clips previously
recorded).

**Multimedia sensor basing on computer vision.**

This pattern is based on using computer vision or speech analysis
techniques to transform a device camera into an advanced sensor. Kurento
provides, off-the-shelf, some basic computer vision capabilities for
detecting faces, detecting crowds, detecting car plates, detecting
movement, etc. However, you can create your own analysis modules and
plug them into Kurento in a simple and seamless way. Note that most of
these analyses lead to generation of data that takes the form of events
(e.g. detected a specific face, detected a car plate, detected an
intruder, etc.) You may want to manage these events as Context
Information.  You can do this by means of updates on context information
using operations exported by the Context Broker GE. 

**Multimedia enrichment basing on augmented reality. **

This pattern is useful when combined with multimedia communications to
generate applications where the capabilities of the people receiving
multimedia information are augmented by the system. Augmented reality
basically consists on adding layers of information on top of the basic
media stream captured by the camera. This makes possible for the
receiver to see information that is beyond the reality being
communicated. This may be useful in different scenarios including, for
example, entertainment scenarios (e.g. adding costumes to people in a
conference), in learning scenarios (e.g. augmenting the teaching lessons
with animations or texts), in health (e.g. augmenting the communication
with a patient with biometric data), in security (e.g. augmenting
information on the identity of the people captured by a camera), in
industrial applications (e.g. adding instructions on how to manage or
repair a complex machine), in advertising (e.g. adding customized ads to
the media stream depending on context or on other available data), etc.

If you are interested in learning more about the Real-time Multimedia
Stream Processing GE and its reference implementation, Kurento, you may
find useful the following information:

-   [What’s WebRTC and what’s a media
    server](/real-time-processing-of-media-streams/whats-webrtc-and-whats-a-media-server/)
-   [What’s the architecture of a Kurento enabled
    application](/real-time-processing-of-media-streams/whats-the-architecture-of-a-kurento-enabled-application/)
-   [How to develop a Kurento enabled
    application](/real-time-processing-of-media-streams/how-to-develop-a-kurento-enabled-application/)

 
If you want to start experimenting and doing hands-on work, have a look at:

- [Kurento GEri](https://github.com/Fiware/context.Kurento)
 
