WebRTC is an open source technology that enables web browsers with
Real-Time Communications (RTC) capabilities via JavaScript APIs. WebRTC
is currently under standardization at the IETF and W3C and has the
support of the most important companies in the area of Internet and
telecommunications. WebRTC has been conceived as a peer-to-peer
technology where browsers can directly communicate without the mediation
of any kind of infrastructure. This model is enough for creating basic
applications but features such as group communications, media stream
recording, media broadcasting or media transcoding are difficult to
implement on top of it. For this reason, many applications require using
a media server.

[![Real time processin media
stream1](images/Real-time-processin-media-stream1.png)](images/Real-time-processin-media-stream1.png)

Conceptually, a WebRTC media server is just a kind of “multimedia
middleware” (it is in the middle of the communicating peers) where media
traffic pass through when moving from source to destinations. Media
servers are capable of processing media streams and offering different
types including groups communications (distributing the media stream one
peer generates among several receivers, i.e. acting as Multi-Conference
Unit, MCU), mixing (transforming several incoming stream into one single
composite stream), transcoding (adapting codecs and formats between
incompatible clients), recording (storing in a persistent way the media
exchanged among peers), etc.

Kurento, the Real-time Processing Stream Oriented GE, has been conceived
as a WebRTC capable media server. At the heart of the Kurento
architecture there is a media server called the **Kurento Media Server
(KMS)**. Kurento Media Server is based on pluggable media processing
capabilities meaning that any of its provided features is a pluggable
module that can be activated or deactivated. Moreover, developers can
seamlessly create additional modules extending Kurento Media Server with
new functionalities which can be plugged dynamically.

Kurento Media Server provides, out of the box, group communications,
mixing, transcoding, recording and playing. In addition, it also
provides advanced modules for media processing including computer
vision, augmented reality, alpha blending and much more. Besides,
Kurento Media Server is capable of receiving video streams from most
types of IP cameras supporting the RTSP or HTTP protocols.

 
