When progressing from small experimental environments to a more
extensive use of the cloud infrastructure, it is often required to
automate the provisioning and life cycle of complex applications
comprising multiple resources -- such as multi-tier applications with
several inter-dependent Virtual Machines, each running a particular
software stack and configured to interact with the other Virtual
Machines. FIWARE Cloud provides advanced capabilities to manage
application **blueprints**, comprising one or more application tiers.
Each tier may consist of an elastic group of Virtual Machine instances,
with auto-scaling rules (enforced by the **Policy Manager GE**) that
determine when Virtual Machines will be added or removed to/from the
group, typically based on the load on the corresponding tier (monitored
via a dedicated instrumentation provided by the **Monitoring GE**).
Moreover, each tier can define the **software packages** that should be
configured within the guest Operating System as part of the Virtual
Machine instance provisioning. The software packages and their
configuration are managed by the **Software Deployment and Configuration
GE**, which is based on (and compatible with) Opscode Chef -- a widely
used open source software configuration management tool. The combination
of these GEs, surfaced in a holistic manner via the**PaaS Management
GE** (and available in the FIWARE Cloud Portal), provides unique value
proposition currently not available in other OpenStack-based clouds. It
is worth noticing that the FIWARE team is working with the OpenStack
community to contribute the necessary enhancements to make our
technology broadly available.

More details on working with blueprints (via the FIWARE Cloud Portal)
can be found at  http://edu.fi-ware.org/course/view.php?id=47 and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MdZS\_0jt6Vo

 
