FIWARE Cloud provides advanced IaaS capabilities based on OpenStack,
including Compute (Nova), Storage (Cinder), Network (Neutron) and Image
(Glance) services. The services are available both via OpenStack APIs
and via the FIWARE Cloud Portal. **OpenStack Compute (Nova)** service
can be used to provision Virtual Machine instances by specifying the
virtual machine configuration ‘flavor’ (from a catalogue of pre-defined
flavors configured by the administrator) and virtual machine image,
which comprise a pre-packaged Operating System and a software stack
managed by **OpenStack Image (Glance)** service. FIWARE Lab holds a rich
catalogue of Virtual Machine images, including base Operating Systems
(such as Ubuntu or Red Hat) as well as images comprising pre-packaged
installations of the various Generic Enabler implementations. It is
possible to automatically customize the guest Operating System
configuration on the first boot of the Virtual Machine, as well as to
control the power state of the Virtual Machine (power on/off),
suspend/resume, take snapshots, etc. The availability of some of the
functions depend on the capabilities of the underlying virtualization
layer. **OpenStack Storage (Cinder)** service can be used to provision
persistent storage volumes, allocated from one of the storage pools
configured by the administrator. These volumes can be then attached to a
Virtual Machine instance, to hold persistent data of an application.
**OpenStack Network (Neutron)** service is used to provision and manage
virtual networks, which can be used to define connectivity domains and
attach Virtual Machine instances to them, as well as virtual routers,
used to control connectivity between virtual networks and with the
Internet.

More details on how to work with the FIWARE Cloud infrastructure via the
FIWARE Cloud Portal can be found at
 http://edu.fi-ware.org/mod/scorm/view.php?id=90   
 and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mb7CdMnZh7Q
